[Music]
did you watch the iran-contra hearings
gets I did yes I do
portions of it I wasn't for a few days I
watched a lot of it my husband was
addicted to it I watch very little of it
but I did follow it very closely yes do
you think they're telling the truth no
no not really not the whole truth I
think they're under oath so I think
they're telling the truth they could
remember they all had lobotomies that
nobody could remember anything you talk
about finality holy cow they were lying
about most everything there's a lot more
of the story but whether or not we'll
ever find out about it is another
question
[Music]
what you saw in the iran-contra hearings
was the exposure of the beginnings of a
national security state which believes
it has the right to override the
Constitution had states in the name of
security I think that there was a
substantial shadow government trying to
run foreign affairs the United States in
any other country it would have been
called a coup and they seem to have
gotten away with it I'd hate to think as
many of my colleagues here have already
expressed themselves that in the process
we have shredded our own democratic
fabric
these are modern-day pirates these guys
they have escaped essentially the
control of national governments but
they're available for use by national
governments sometimes they move under
color of you know and defend themselves
as advancing US national interests in
this but I I think that's very secondary
with these guys they're out to make a
buck I did do it I am NOT as I said in
my statement at all ashamed of any of
the things that I did I was given a
mission but and I tried to carry it out
the iran-contra hearings convened in May
1987 by a special joint committee of the
United States Congress to investigate
the sale of US weapons to Iran and the
illegal diversion of money to the
Contras for 13 weeks the hearings were
broadcast on national television over 30
people testified and the committee
issued a 700 page report of its findings
but there are still many important
questions that the Select Committee left
unanswered and unexplored often the
official explanation seemed inadequate
and contradictory our government has a
firm policy not to capitulate the
terrorists demands that no concessions
policy remains in force in spite of the
wildly speculative in false stories
about arms for hostages and alleged
ransom payments we did not repeat did
not trade weapons or anything else for
hostages nor will we despite Reagan's
denials investigations soon revealed
that arms had been traded for hostages
held in the Mideast
a few months ago I told the American
people I did not trade arms for hostages
my heart and my best intentions still
tell me that's true but the facts and
the evidence tell me it is not only days
later it was further revealed that the
arms to Iran had been severely marked up
some of the profits had been illegally
diverted to support the Contras
a guerrilla force organized by the CIA
fighting the Nicaraguan government the
Reagan administration had a major
scandal on its hands going on that had
been kept from me in various covert we
had weapons being sold by the Pentagon
under the Economy Act to the CIA the CIA
selling them to a third party or an
agent in the case of general Secord who
would then complete the transactions I'm
just trying to find out where the
authorities were coming from to do these
activities and clearly there was no
congressional oversight over this
because it was kept totally hidden from
the Congress from who would you have to
get the green light in order to make the
request or the direction I take it to
see court to move ahead well as I have
testified senator I talked to director
Casey I talked to mr. McFarlane I talked
to Admiral Poindexter the use of US
government money for supporting the
overthrow of the Nicaraguan government
was specifically prohibited when
Congress enacted the Boland Amendment in
1984 even though it remained in effect
until 1986 millions of dollars in
profits from Iranian arms sales were
secretly diverted to the Contras during
this period through contacts with middle
men such as Monaco Gabbana far mr. gore
bonny fire took me into the bathroom and
mr. gore Barney fire suggested several
incentives to make that February
transaction work and the attraction the
attractive incentive for me was the one
he made that residuals could flow to
support the Nicaraguan resistance even
gorban afar knew that you were
supporting the Contras yes he did his
best you knew what the name had been in
the papers in Moscow it'd been all over
Danny Ortegas newscast radio Havana was
broadcasting it it was been the
every newspaper in the land all our
enemies knew it and you wanted to
conceal it from the United States
Congress we wanted to be able to deny a
covert operation did these hearings
uncover the full story behind the Contra
gate scandal or was it merely an attempt
to keep the real truth hidden from
public view
Peter Dale Scott professor at the
University of California at Berkeley has
conducted extensive research on covert
action and CIA activities the results
are detailed in his book the iran-contra
connection I think the real issue was
that both the the administration and the
majority of the people in the
committee's were frightened that the
real scandals the drug scandals for
example would really threaten the
continue any future conduct of covert
operations on the scale that they had
been handled in the past and so they
were trying very deliberately to limit
the damage this was damage controls and
the alleged diversion to the countries
the American people may very well feel
that the important questions didn't get
asked so they don't have the whole
picture they have a few little
transactions and nauseating detail on
those few transactions but they but they
were cheated out of the whole ball of
wax and so they were pulling their
punches on all the major questions and
issues of what would really what really
happened in this thing what the CIA's
role was anytime they got into anything
that was really sensitive about exactly
that exactly what the CIA's role was and
exactly what laws were broken and when
they went into secret session which
means that we the people won't be you
know we won't ever know like you I do
not wish to see secrets of this land
inadvertently and accidentally made
public accordingly the panel will enter
into executive session
in addition to facts that were hidden
from the public through secrecy in
executive sessions other evidence was
simply destroyed when you got back to
examining what they had done they
systematically destroyed and shredded
all of the documentation as much as they
could get hours of shredding altered
some of the documents that remained
stole what they couldn't thread now this
gives you an indication that there may
be a few things they did that they
didn't want the public to know
i shredded I was never told not to shred
i shredded because i thought it was the
right thing to do when I didn't have a
shredder I put it in a burn bag and they
were burned word you going through your
files to get rid of embarrassing
documents embarrassing no documents that
would compromise the national security
of the United States documents that
would put lives at risk documents that
would demonstrate a covert action in the
US direction and control and and
relationship to it yes embarrassing no
my memory is very unclear about how the
showing incident started I believe as I
said my memory is that he began pulling
documents and I joined him and did you
surmise that this was a way of trying to
cover up something in conjunction with
the Iran initiative or the Contra nation
I don't use the word coverup I would use
the word protect why do you think we
still launch to Iran to get the hostages
out strictly to get the hashes out I
think some people really believed that
they were moderate elements there that
might you know help us in the future I
really think there may focus was
they say it was to help the Contras in
Nicaragua but I don't believe that's
true it was to get the money I believe
and that reason could be anything I mean
they can tell us anything on TV
Iran is a crucial economic Geographic
country the US wants to get them
friendly again as quickly as possible
perhaps the most explosive issue that
was not investigated in the hearings was
the true nature of the arrangement with
Iran
when did the u.s. actually begin selling
weapons to Iran and why the most
important thing to come out of the
hearings is what didn't even get asked
at the hearings and that was Ronald
Reagan cut a deal with Iran before the
1980 election to send arms to Iran in
exchange for Iran's agreeing to delay
the release of our 52 hostages
Barbara Honegger was a dedicated member
of the Reagan Bush presidential campaign
in 1980
she worked on a special writing research
and policy staff and later as a White
House policy analyst as part of my
position I was required to cover the 11
o'clock evening news in the operation
center the campaign was afraid that
Jimmy Carter would successfully bring
the 52 hostages home what we called the
October Surprise and win the election
there had been a feeling of panic in the
campaign the 56 hostages taken captive
at the US Embassy in Iran in 1979 became
a major issue in Jimmy Carter's campaign
for re-election to a second term as
president his repeated efforts to gain
the release failed and Ronald Reagan was
elected by a wide margin after 14 months
in captivity the hostages were finally
released January 21st 1981 the day of
Ronald Reagan's inauguration
now working as a private investigator
Barbara Honaker has researched the
hostage question carefully according to
reports gathered from a number of
sources she has distilled the following
information there were two meetings that
we know of for certain to date that
happened one in Washington DC and one in
Paris France before the 1980 election in
October in 1980 where George Bush then
vice presidential candidate Richard
Allen who became Reagan's first national
security adviser Donald Gregg who became
Bush's national security adviser and
still is passed millions of dollars to
the Iranians to delay the release of our
52 hostages and additional 76 days they
met with an emissary of the Khomeini
regime who offered a deal that they
thought Reagan and Bush could not refuse
and that was we will delay the release
of the 52 hostages if you will promise
us all the arms that we could possibly
want in war against Iraq when should
become president
States the man who was president of Iran
during the hostage crisis was Abu Hassan
Bani Sadr he was later al stood in a
coup and is now living in exile in Paris
Bani Sadr supports the charges that a
deal was made with the reagan-bush
campaign to delay the hostages release
in a recent interview he confirms that
the Paris meeting took place and states
that George Bush was specifically
identified as being at the meeting by
Iranian intelligence reports also
identified were moniker kobani far and
Albert Hakim who later emerged as key
middlemen in the iran-contra scandal as
evidence of this agreement Bani Sadr has
made documents available showing written
orders for shipment of American parts
and weapons to Iran through an Israeli
owned company and in fact we now know
that those arms began flowing in late
February early March of 1981 not as the
White House would have you believe in
1985 I want to get to the bottom of this
and find out all that has happened and
so far I've told you all that I know and
you know the truth of the matter is for
quite some long time all that you knew
is what I told you the bottom line is
that the iran-contra committee and the
Walsh investigation because their
mandates only take us back to 1984 in
and of themselves are a cover-up but the
problem of hostages did not go away for
President Reagan radical elements in
Middle Eastern countries continued to
kidnap Americans during Reagan's term of
office we're going to continue to
explore as we always have every
opportunity to try and get them out I
happen to believe that when an American
citizen anyplace in the world is
unjustly denied their constitutional
rights to life liberty in the pursuit of
happiness
it is the responsibility of this
government to restore those rights one
of the hostages taken in Lebanon in
March 1984 was Jerry leavened his wife
sis Levin became increasingly frustrated
with Reagan's lack of action to gain her
husband's release the word sent to the
hostage families constantly was he was
too busy to even see us we had no access
we had no task force we had no hearings
in Congress all of those things were
denied us we were simply told to stay
home to be quiet
to trust and the agenda will be
fulfilled now we know the agenda was to
Iran after seven months sis Levin
finally traveled to the Mideast to gain
her husband's release he was later
allowed to escape as a result of her
negotiations with the Syrian government
her experiences led her to doubt the
Reagan administration's motives claim on
the part of the government was that the
administration was so anxious about the
hostage situation that they were
pressured into giving arms to the
Ayatollah to bring the hostages out many
of us think in looking at it but if
there had not been hostages they would
have had to have been created because if
the agenda to get arms to Iran were
discovered the only thing the American
people would take as an excuse would be
the very human element of a very human
president weeping over hostages the
Reagan Bush administration right from
the beginning
behind the scenes has been an ally of
the Khomeini regime because Ronald
Reagan's number one fear is the Soviet
invasion of Iran it's that simple
I must confess to you that I thought
using the ayatollahs money to support
the Nicaraguan resistance was a right
idea I was not the only one who was
enthusiastic about this idea director
Casey referred to it as the ultimate
irony the ultimate covert operation
there was a lot of talk during the
hearings about covert operations
national security the necessity of
secrecy in conducting foreign policy but
some experts claim that covert action
does not work in the interest of the
u.s. national security nor does it
create a more stable world to think of
the democratic governments have been
overthrown in the last 30 years by
military crews is almost like giving a
capsule history of CIA covert operations
in the last 30 years I mean there there
was the overthrow of Prime Minister
Mossadegh in need in Iran in 1953 there
was the overthrow of our bins in
Guatemala in 1954 there was the
overthrow of the Brazilian government in
1964 there was the ERISA the Ghana
government in 1966 a lot of the
government's I've just mentioned got
into trouble with the international oil
companies because they tried to assert
their national robbers over their own
resources time after time the CIA has
come
[Music]
you start a huge covert war that you
intend is gonna be secret it's not
secret from the Russians
certainly not secret from the Laotians
who are getting shot at or the Angolans
or the Nicaraguans or whoever it is it's
covert from the American taxpayer and
voter and a lot of people make a lot of
money off of it
and it attracts criminals and it has
every single time who are the names the
faces behind these covert activities
some like Oliver North
general Secord Albert Hakeem are
practically household names but Daniel
Sheehan chief legal counsel for the
Christic Institute a public interest law
firm believes there are other
influential players involved there
exists in operation now a secret team of
some two dozen men former Central
Intelligence Agency covert operatives
former u.s. Pentagon arms suppliers who
have joined together in a private
enterprise outside of the control of the
American government either the Congress
or the president who are mounting their
personal Wars around the world whether
there is actually an organized secret
team or simply a loose Association of
individuals it is clear that there are a
number of people who have been working
actively behind the scenes in these
covert operations some of the names are
Theodore Shaklee who was assistant
deputy director of operations for the
Central Intelligence Agency as of 1976
under George Bush who was CIA director
at the time
Thomas Klein's who worked as a case
officer under Shaklee in Miami and in
Laos Rafael chichi Quintero
an anti-castro Cuban who worked under
Cline's and was allegedly recruited by
the CIA as an assassin general Johnson
lab who worked with Shaklee and Klein's
in Vietnam and was in charge of the
CIA's special operations over the border
into Laos General Richard seek
who supervised the air operations into
Laos and was later assigned to the
Pentagon where he was put in charge of
arms sales to Iran
Albert Hakim who was a salesman for US
weapons companies and a middlemen in the
iran-contra affair these are the men who
have been stirring the pot around the
world to instigate these wars and there
were the side of the right-wing and
that's the group that we're dealing with
right here who are making war around the
world for their own personal profit it
was after the failed invasion of Cuba at
the Bay of Pigs in 1961 the Theodore
Shaklee as CIA station chief in Miami
and his assistant Thomas Klein's
began working with Rafael Quintero and
other right-wing Cubans to overthrow the
Castro government in 1965 Shaklee and
Klein's were transferred to Laos where
Shaklee became CIA station chief climbs
his assistant once again it was here in
Southeast Asia that they teamed up with
generous Secord and single and they
there began running the secret war in
Laos and Cambodia and Thailand
everybody in the United States basically
thought the world was going on in
Vietnam in fact there was a major dirty
war covert war it was fought primarily
through assassinations of people that
were suspected sympathizers of the path
that Lao or other people who were not
terribly sympathetic to the Western
powers when Theodore Shaklee was
promoted to director of CIA Western
Hemisphere operations he supervised the
plans to overthrow the democratically
elected president of Chile Salvador
Allende Allende a socialist had promised
to nationalize the copper mines and
other industries and posed a threat to
US business interests in Chile after a
bloody coup a yen day was replaced by a
right-wing military dictator Augusto
Pinochet whose security forces brutally
murdered and tortured thousands of
political dissidents Shaklee moved on
returning to Southeast Asia at that time
the writing was on the wall the United
States was going to be pushed out of
Southeast Asia it was clear that the the
Vietcong were going to prevail under Ho
Chi Minh and so what these men began to
do they began to pilfer hundreds of tons
of ammunition and military equipment out
of Vietnam they began to construct a
covert war capacity that was unknown to
the United States Congress it didn't
require supervision by the president but
would pursue the mission that they
viewed as their ultimate mission that is
to attempt to vanquish any people who
didn't support the United States foreign
policy and more socialist
but then came Watergate a president
forced to resign and the American people
disillusioned by White House corruption
and lies wanted a change in 1976 Jimmy
Carter was elected president he a new
CIA director Stansfield Turner began to
clean house pushing at nearly 800 men
from CIA covert operations when all
these covert operators were fired in the
1970s they didn't just start opening
restaurants or working in bookstores
they were people who were very skilled
in covert manipulation of political
process and they essentially ganged up
to find and then elect a candidate who
would put them back in the covert
operations business and Reagan and Bush
were only too eager to be that kind of
candidate in the late 70s Shaklee
Cline's and secord worked together in a
company called its co es Co was formed
in order to ship weapons from the u.s.
to egypt as in the iran sales large
profits were taken from these deals the
man who provided the financing for its
Co was Edwin Wilson we used to visit
that you know I guess I was prosperous
and if I could do it obviously they
could do it and they figured they would
like as soon as they left the government
to get involved in business with me
in 1983 Wilson was convicted of
supplying arms to Libyan president
Muammar Qaddafi now serving 52 years in
federal prison
Wilson asserts that he has merely taken
the fall for his superiors and
ex-business partners theodore Shaklee
and Thomas Klein's
I would fund an organization and these
people would all be in it so it was
Klein's Shaklee see court man Maura Bona
myself five of us
this organization it would be with 20%
each of us I would fund it for $500,000
what's important about this each coke
company is that it's a kind of precedent
in the Ed Wilson style for the hacking
Secord enterprise in the iran-contra
affair you have a government arrange
sale of arms and people with connections
to the government get to move the arms
they rip off the government for a very
hefty profit or surplus it was done in
the case of eat skull by Cline's and
company and it was done in the
iran-contra affair by Secord and Hakim
as private businessman and government
operatives Shaklee Cline's and secord
along with Wilson and middleman Albert
Hakim turned their attention to the
Mideast they supplied arms to Mideast
governments while skimming off huge
profits into hidden bank accounts around
the world they secretly supplied weapons
and military intelligence to Nicaraguan
dictator Anastasio Somoza and helped the
Shah of Iran eliminate his enemies there
is an early bond between Iran and
Nicaragua the bond is this secret team
of men so throughout that period from
October of 1977
to December of 1978 this secret team has
two major operations one to support the
Shah the other to support the right-wing
dictator Anastasio Somoza in Nicaragua
the this was their world at that time
the shock collapses in December of 78 in
Anastasio Somoza collapses in July of
[Applause]
after the overthrow of samosa many of
his former National Guardsmen fled to
Honduras where they were organized and
trained by the CIA as a counter
revolutionary force to fight against the
new government in Nicaragua they began
to create the Contras to try to do the
identical thing that was done by the
supporters of Batista against the Cuban
revolutionary government back in 1959
not an indigenous force inside Nicaragua
that had any support from any of the
population in Nicaragua it was a total
artifice that was created by these men
these are young men and women who gave
up everything they had and they fled a
totalitarian communist regime and they
fled to another country because they
could no longer live within the one that
they'd been born him they took up arms I
didn't create the Nicaraguan contra or
the Nicaraguan freedom fighter and the
CIA didn't create it
the Sandinistas created it one of the
original contra political leaders was
Edgar tomorrow he joined the Contras in
1981 I became involved with the contrast
because the CIA using people from the
White House they invited me to be one of
the Contra leaders I was told that this
was just a war for a year the United
States wanted to put this pressure on
Nicaragua but then after a year so I
found out that this was not the case we
will be used to deceive the American
people were used to to lie to Congress
by going to tell Congress the purpose
was a good purpose to bring democracy
but in private we were telling were
being told something different so I felt
that this was a big lie after several
years with the Contras Chamorro became
disillusioned with CIA
influence on the Contra movement and
quit still a critic of some sandanista
policies he is yet a harsher critic of
the Contras the tactics used by the
Contras were tactics of
terrorizing civilians making situations
for civilian were game getting killed
[Music]
in Nicaragua under President Reagan they
are in fact giving the Contras written
instructions and violence and
destabilization the target is the people
the the social and economic
infrastructure is what you're hitting at
it's not a bloodbath it's like you go
into a village and you kill a few people
to make your point the purpose is to
disseminate terror traumatize the people
we're not killing Sandinistas in the
capital we're not blowing up their homes
and terrorizing them
we're hitting at the people throughout
the interior of the country
in addition to the terrorist tactics
used by the Contras there was corruption
substantial portions of both
congressional funds and privately raised
monies were never accounted for
Travelers Cheques raises the question in
relative to the Contras the soldier in
the field can't cash a traveler's check
but we used to purchase corridors for
them
well three million dollars in traveler's
checks
naturally raises suspicious after a
while they get used to that pays you
know how income and good salaries and
the per diems and many other privileges
so it was a way to be big shots again a
fat cuts and they were not really
interested in in the care of people well
we know that huge amounts of money are
missing we know that there were bribes
of the millions of dollars given to the
Honduran officers we know that at a time
when the United States government was
paying for complete rations for the
troops that the the contra troops were
living on one meal a day there have been
a lot of allegations turn around
but the Contra resupply offers operation
was involved in cocaine trafficking we
found absolutely no evidence during my
tenure at the NSC that any of the
resistance leaders were in themselves or
their subordinates involved in drug
running although there was enough
evidence to warrant investigation into
CIA drug trafficking there was no
serious interest on the part of
committee members and no firsthand
witnesses were called at one point the
hearings were disrupted by two observers
who burst out in protest
for these actions the protesters were
handed down stiff jail sentences of over
a year each they never got into drugs
even though it kept coming up in their
face they had got Declassified a lot of
memos from Robert Owen which he was
telling Oliver North that there were
contra leaders were involved in the drug
traffic the only questions they allowed
on this was to sort of smooth it over or
to blame it on somebody else News
program over the weekend suggested that
Rob Owen who testified earlier was
involved in drug smuggling now is there
any truth to that can you shed any light
for us on that subject absolutely false
mr. Owen is the last person perhaps
right beside me that would ever be
engaged in those kinds of activities in
the early 1980s when the CIA was working
to establish a southern front in Costa
Rica in the war against Nicaragua a
relationship was established with John
Howe an American rancher living in Costa
Rica there is mounting evidence that the
airstrip sonhos ranch became not only a
delivery point for illegal contraband
shipments from the US but were also used
for transporting cocaine into the United
States
you have CI bases in Costa Rica and
Honduras you have airplanes flying back
and forth continuously landing at bases
in the United States where they don't
have to go through regular customs with
the CIA escorting the people in and out
and a certain lay safe air and the
attitude at best of the customs if there
is you know any customed representation
there so it's a dream situation for drug
smugglers Jorge Morales who is now
serving 32 years in federal prison for
drug smuggling once ran an air transport
business in Florida in 1984 while under
indictment for smuggling marijuana he
was approached by the CIA
[Music]
I was going to they had some drugs
cocaine in San Jose Costa Rica which
they needed to bring back to the United
States I was told to send planes with
this applies to expunged which we did
Gary bets nur who is also serving time
for drug smuggling worked as a pilot for
George Morales George said he wanted me
to fly a couple loads of guns and bring
coke back from Costa Rica and he gave me
the directions to John Holmes ranch I
was a CIA operative in Costa Rica I left
approximately midnight I arrived at John
hollows ranch about 7:00 to 5:00 in the
morning offload of the guns loaded 500
keys of cocaine on the plane I guess the
aircraft myself loaded
and departed and each time I did it I
paid myself 20 kilos which is
approximately 400,000 eventually when
this was brought to the attention of the
FBI and the assistant US attorney in
Miami they went down and conducted some
kind of investigation of this halls name
came up how refused to be interviewed
Howe and his friends phoned Washington
Washington alerted Oliver North
Oliver North somehow got the Justice
Department in Washington to phone down
to the US Attorney's Office in Miami and
apparently the US attorney was told to
go very slow on his investigation but
CIA involvement in the drug business did
not start in Central America it dates
back at least as far as the Vietnam War
well the three men Shaklee and sing loud
and secord were all working together
from different countries on the huge CIA
secret war in Laos our allies were the
opium growing tribesmen and this meant
that we continued in a very large way
not only to support but really to
augment a flow of heroin this had to be
run with the knowledge and the approval
of the people who were in charge of
these air operations and these air
operations had been controlled in the
6668 period by general secret the way
the dynamics worked is that you're a
young or middle grade case officer our
pilot on Air America the CIA airlines or
cats will air transport and this general
and his family are his aides get on the
plane and they have suitcases that you
know damn well is full of heroin now you
don't really have the authority to throw
them off it's kind of more their country
than yours and if you do you're gonna
lose your job
have the whole weight of the CI coming
down on you whereas if you just smile
and fly them and then get them down to
the base and whatever capital you're
going to and take them through customs
if necessary help them through you know
you're doing your job you're making
money no questions asked
despite our best efforts illegal cocaine
is coming into our country at alarming
levels and four to five million people
regularly use it 500,000 Americans are
hooked on heroin one in 12 person smokes
marijuana regularly our job is never
easy because drug criminals are
ingenious they work every day to plot a
new and better way to steal our
children's lives just as they've done by
developing this new drug crack for every
door that we close they open a new door
to death this administration is
impossible to embarrass to begin with
and they rely on the old rule of deny
deny deny
despite the you know the vast amounts of
evidence that is available and as we
talked earlier there is the tendency
within the Congress and within large
sections of all the establishment media
you know simply to reject this sort of
thing it can't be happening if Nancy
Reagan is saying just no to drugs you
know how can you no drugs be running by
the same freedom fighters as she
embraces its various banquets the
weapons trade in the narcotics trade in
the world are two of the top five major
money-making transactions in the whole
world
these two major commodities in the world
are hundreds of billions of dollars that
go on they could they could pay the
money of the national debt for whole
countries in fact Jorge Cho and Pablo
Escobar agreed to pay the entire
national debt of Colombia if in fact
Colombia would agree not to allow them
to be extradited and it would still
leave both of these guys multi
billionaires so the amount of money that
we're talking about here is
absolutely gargantuan in all that the
intelligence community these guys have
brought outside the governmental
structures are tapping into hundreds of
millions which they need to run their
operations there's been testimony that
mr. Hakim and secord were reaping large
profits by marking up the arms being
sold to the Contras for example mr.
seacord agreed to a suggestion of Tom
Klein's that they maximize the profits
from the last sale of arms to the
Contras were you aware that no how much
money according to your understanding
did mr. seacord take from the sale of
arms to Iran I still don't know I don't
even know that he did was it your
understanding that there was eight
million dollars either in Swiss bank
accounts or in investment accounts at
CSF no sir
[Music]
facts are that Secord and North and
Hakim wonderful operators of a secret
war of a shadow government operating for
a shadow government or people who still
have control of 8 million dollars of
United States money our money and they
are controlling it got it rocked up in a
Swiss bank somewhere far off on a CD
somewhere else
[Music]
corruption blatant violations of US law
and drug running are not the only means
to a political end there is mounting
evidence that assassinations even of
Americans are not out of the question
mr. Owen you were in Central America in
May of 1984 when a bombing attack was
undertaken on the headquarters have been
former country leader Eden pastores
that's right yes sir I was
I was down there on a survey for Colonel
North I had a meeting that night with
John Howe and also with the senior CIA
official in that government excuse me in
that country we discussed what was going
on and I just was shocked as everyone
else was when we learned about 3:30 in
the morning when some of the Nicaraguans
came to the apartment and talked with us
and told us what had happened John Hall
has been accused of masterminding and
being involved in it it's absolutely
scurrilous as well and I'm saying this
under oath the 1984 bombing at the penka
Nicaragua killed eight people and
injured 25 others among those killed was
American journalist Linda Fraser the
intended victim contra Lita Eden Pastora
escaped with only minor injuries but
some people started asking who would
want to kill Pastora and why II didn't
pass Dora who was the famous comandante
a zero a major military commander and
hero of the sandanista peasant
revolution against Anastasio Somoza the
dictator in the crime had become
growingly disenchanted with the the
revolutionary government the coalition
government in Nicaragua in 1982 he left
the garage WA and went to Costa Rica his
purpose was to organize a genuinely
indigenous group of Nicaraguans to
undertake a political and military
resistance to the Nicaraguan government
Tony a began freelance journalist and
news cameraman was working for ABC News
in Costa Rica during the past or a
controversy Pastora had received an
ultimatum from the Central Intelligence
Agency
saying that you must accept unity with
the largest contribute the fdn or face a
cut-off and aid and unspecified
consequences he caught this news
conference for the purpose of saying
that he would not give in to this demand
and that he would never accept unity
with the the fdn and basically to tell
the CIA to go to hell for a sunny day in
dilemma rally because of moral reasons
because of political and ideological
reasons we could not unify become allies
with the historical murderers of our
people the international media was
invited to this press conference held at
Pastores contrabass camp just inside the
Nicaraguan border ATLA penka Tony Aragon
was one of the journalists who made the
trip upriver to hear Pastora
it was just a very very routine day I
myself had made it at least a dozen
maybe fifteen trips to contra camps in
southern Nicaragua and this was just one
more and I thought absolutely nothing of
it I mean didn't think there was any any
danger involved you know whatsoever so
we got there at about 7 o'clock in the
evening and we went up to this cottage
and past daughter was there so very soon
he started talking with us a girl came
in and offer him some coffee some
seconds afterwards were maybe one minute
afterwards the bomb exploded
sencilla gala men con los que haces in
our own mi pueblo con lo que haces in
our own a my padre
I felt my hair on my skin on fire and I
thought it only happened to me and I
fell forward onto the floor trying to
put out the fire and almost as soon as I
hit the floor I I realized that it
wasn't just me after more than 12 hours
the injured journalists finally arrived
at the hospital in Casa de Costa Rica
Tony a bergen's wife Martha honey also a
journalist was at the hospital I noticed
as we came out of the emergency door
that there was this person sitting there
who I asked the nurses who is that and
they said oh that's Perico Hansen a
Danish journalist and he was sitting in
hospital garb but obviously you know
only slightly if it all injured and
sitting there chain-smoking very calm
just kind of watching what was going on
and what we later learned was that he
had left the hospital and had gone back
to his hotel checked out and vanished
and that was the last that any of us
ever saw them after a baganz recovery he
and Martha honey began an investigation
of the bombing incident they found that
the bomb had been made with c4 a very
powerful explosive they also discovered
that the mysterious Danish journalist
named / Anka Hansen was in fact a Mac
Khalil who is thought to be a right-wing
anti-qadhafi Libyan the investigation
revealed that Galil had also worked with
the secret police in Chile it soon
became clear that Galil was not acting
alone the action is well done it's very
precise and we didn't get to piranha has
him never we didn't get to him that
means that he has a very good Network to
help me that is the reason why I think
there's an organized crime there I don't
care if it is left or right I think
there is a network behind Pelican Hansen
we began quite early on to collect
information about what we call the
intellect
authors the people the team behind the
bomber and I think within about about
two months it became pretty clear to us
that what we were looking at was a group
of people which included some Cuban
Americans from Miami this fellow John
hull here whose works for the CIA in
northern Costa Rica some of the top
leadership of the Contra organization
the fdn including Adolfo Calero and some
some other people leading up towards the
White House Mima forces they are the
same forces the counter-revolution
supervised by signor Calero
and sections of the CIA and the national
security council conducted by mr.
Maroney whose other name is Dewey
Claridge in the Central Intelligence
Agency and in the National Security
Council conducted by Colonel Oliver
North they were the ones interesting or
the ones in whose interest it would be
to eliminate the Southern forces or to
eliminate us the evidence now is is a
matter of public record that Secord
inclines and Hakeem and Rafael chichi
Quintero at least were directly involved
in supplying the military equipment
including the c-4 explosives that we're
going into Costa Rica to John Hall's
ranch and we have placed John Hall by
direct eyewitness accounts physically in
the company of Parrikar Hansen or
Michael al prior to the bombing in the
presence of the metal suitcase they had
the c4 in it I have no idea who placed
the bomb and the pink or why I have no
idea I only know that this honey and
Aragon have constantly bribed people to
give false information
implicating the CIA the Costa Rican
officials and so forth if the CIA has
the capacity if they wanted to kill
somebody they wouldn't have to kill a
bunch of innocent oppressed people and
they have no need to kill what would the
CIA gain by being there we're convinced
from the interviews that we did that
targeting the American press the
American journalists who went to LA
penka was one of the specific objects
they wanted Americans to die
they succeeded they killed Linda Fraser
and that this was one of the plans
because the plan was to blame this
bombing on the Sandinistas and try to
turn American public opinion and the
American press against the Sandinistas
following their investigation began and
honey filed a twenty million dollar
lawsuit against the group they feel is
responsible for the LaPenta bombing
representing them in this potentially
explosive case is Daniel Sheehan and the
Christic Institute a public interest law
firm that has successfully prosecuted
cases involving Karen Silkwood Three
Mile Island and the Ku Klux Klan in
Greensboro North Carolina the defendants
in the LaPenta suit include theodore
Shaklee Thomas Klein's
general Secord and others with
connections to the CIA and the White
House you've spoken very highly of
Thomas client era yes sir
and you indicated that we'd use the
services of both in your contra or Iran
project some of them there's you no
doubt aware you and Thomas Klein's and
Rafael Quintero and others have been
sued in federal court in Florida for a
vast array of alleged illegal and
corrupt practices beginning as far back
in 1960s did you know about that of
course I know about it well the
allegations include the organization of
SAS ination program funded by the drug
kingpin in Laos and laundering of
millions of dollars of
of dollar scheme from sale of military
weapons for the Shah of Iran and but the
provision of military services to samosa
and laundering Colombian drug money this
suit which was filed in May of last year
is the most outrageous fairy tale and
anybody's ever read nobody including
Justice Department credits it at all
it's being dealt with I can only fight
on so many fronts at once I regard that
when there's a rather minor threat which
will be tossed out of court shortly
thank you very much the hearing will
stand in recess until 2 p.m. this
afternoon
clearly the Reagan administration in its
policy was respected Nicaragua has again
and again taken the position that the
end justifies the means though they're
perfectly happy to subvert domestic law
international law because they have a
higher goal in their own minds and that
is to fight communism now if we don't
support the Nicaraguan democratic
resistance and ignore the communist
threat that exists right now in Central
America what in your opinion what in
your opinion you think might happen in
the next 20 years in this Hemisphere and
maybe throughout the world
it won't take 20 years senator it will
take a whole lot less the consolidation
of the communist regime in Managua will
result in the spread of that revolution
as they themselves have advocated you
will see democracy perish in the rest of
Central America if the Communists get
control of Central America which I
assure you they will if we leave
Nicaragua as a base for the Cubans and
the Russians then they'll be in a
position to throw 50 or 80 million
refugees into the United States they can
break our economy and never fire a shot
if you deeply believe that this is a
communist menace that is gonna march
from Nicaragua up to Texas and Topeka
and soon take over the United States
maybe it would justify the means but if
you look back over the history of this
thing each one of these crises has not
look at Angola we were told ten years
ago that if we allowed a Marxist
government to take over in Angola would
never get another oil tanker out of the
Persian Gulf but they would disrupt the
sea lanes well the Marxist government
did take over in Angola we were told
that if we lost Vietnam and Indochina
that the whole row of dominoes would
fall what were the results when we lose
the war all the dominoes that were
supposed to fall instead of falling they
become in just a few years later what
the World Bank our own institution calls
the economically strongest area region
in the world Council I don't believe
that anyone who served in Vietnam who
saw what happened as a consequence of
our efforts one in my opinion we won all
the battles and then lost the war could
ever be unaffected by that unless they
were totally insensitive I will point
out that we didn't lose the war in
Vietnam we lost the war right here in
this city
well what North was saying there was
America's real enemies are inside this
country and that would explain why North
spent so many years under Bush's
auspices preparing contingency plans for
rounding up large numbers of dissenters
if we ever go into another war now you'd
have thought that the committee would
have been outraged by North sort of
declaration of war with a large segment
of the American people but instead of
their disagreeing with them most of them
actually agreed with him
[Music]
the fear of an enemy within is not new
in American government in 1942 amidst
the hysteria following the bombing of
Pearl Harbor over 100,000 Americans
Japanese descent were rounded up and put
into mass prison camps they were accused
of no crime given no trial but remained
incarcerated for several years this
internment of japanese-americans is
thought by many to be one of the darkest
moments in American history but could it
happen again concomitant with this whole
operation was a plan to suspend the
United States Constitution as they've
referred to it in under a state of
national emergency on the part of the
president where that comes from
is a specific program called Rex 80 for
readiness exercise number 84 are for a
1984 and it was undertaken under the
Federal Emergency Management Agency now
this was a national executive branch
agency that was originally set up at the
very end of the Carter Administration to
do nothing more than to coordinate the
national flood relief hurricane relief
Red Cross stuff things to get up to the
government programs all brought under
one umbrella sleek Accord anything when
Reagan was elected to the presidency he
installed Lewis gia Frida as head of
FEMA the Federal Emergency Management
Agency geo Frida was an old cold warrior
from Reagan's California days whose
specialty was suppression of unrest and
dissent gia Frieda north and George Bush
began to turn FEMA into an instrument of
domestic anti-terrorism you're dealing
with the group of people in the Reagan
administration who equated political
dissent with treason and who cannot
differentiate between emergency
procedures which I think everyone agrees
are necessary and suppressing political
dissent and with North and Poindexter
and KC you had a group of people who saw
Americans who disagree with them as the
enemy Colonel North in your work at the
see well you not assigned at one time to
work on plans for the continuity of
government in the event of a major
disaster
I believe that question touches upon a
highly sensitive and classified area so
may I request that you not touch upon
that sir I was particularly concerned
mr. chairman because I read in Miami
papers and several others that they had
been a plan developed by that same
agency a contingency plan in the event
of emergency that would suspend the
American Constitution and I was deeply
concerned about it and wondering if that
was the area in which he had worked a
request that that matter not be touched
upon at this stage if we wish to get
into this on certain arrangements can be
made for an executive session and
tragically the only member who got close
was Jack Brooks and he was stopped by
the chairman does the truth of the
matter is that yes you do have those
standby provisions and the plans are
there and the statutory emergency plans
are there whereby you could in the name
of stopping terrorism apprehend invoke
the military and arrest Americans and
hold him in detention camps if the
President ordered a direct strike into
Central America which was to be
codenamed Operation Night Train
we got the documents on it that they
would set up a concomitant domestic
readiness exercise or wargames scenario
called Rex 84 the main rationale of
which was to round up 400,000
undocumented Central American aliens
within a two-week period of time and
incarcerate them in ten military
detention camps they rehearsed this but
of course if you were hosting the
rounding up of half a million aliens you
have also rehearsed the
rounding up a half million critics of
the administration
it would be very very wrong to think
that these kind of illegal operations
will stop just by halle noise
disappearing because the motives to
generate these kind of agendas are still
there and the powers that were collected
in his name his office as far as I know
they are still there in times of passion
and in times of great fear what to the
eyes of the person and the mind of a
person in time of relative peace and
stability seem impossible become very
real very logical very possible one of
the most threatening developments
surrounding these revelations is the use
of money raised through illegal
activities to influence the American
electoral process there are growing
indications that large amounts of
offshore money are being funneled to
conservative political action committees
to mount campaigns against liberal
congressman up for re-election they have
set themselves up as an independent
government outside of our country Shores
operating out of private corporations
with hundreds of millions of dollars at
their disposal and they will not be told
no not only they won't be told no by
individual congressmen because they will
smash them politically they've moved
money into these PACs from offshore to
help fund these campaigns against people
who don't support their policies we've
come actually full circle where these
people over on the hill are intimidated
that they're afraid of having a whole
campaign launched against them in their
congressional district hey you know in
the 70s there where does a congressman
or two who really stood up to the CIA
there was congressman Pike who brought
out a very very critical report on what
the CIA had been doing and that man was
destroyed his report never even got to
Congress I mean there was senator Clark
for example with the Clark amendment
which stopped operations in
gonna prepared the CIA from operating
there a lot of money came into his state
in the next election they said it was
South African money who knows and he was
defeated
senator Church who led the overall
critique of CIA operation a lot of money
came into his state of Idaho in the next
direction and he was defeated so
congressman can see who has the power
and who has the money in these things
and every now and then one or two of
them will stand up and oppose them but
they need an awful lot of encouragement
from the people before they're going to
take on such powerful enemies do you
think the iran-contra scandal will have
an effect on future government
operations no I think it would be more
the same I don't think there's gonna
have much of an effect at all I just
think that they'll be more careful next
time they will continue to carry on
covert operations I think this has been
going on forever they make laws which
are for us that they don't seem to be
able to inhibit the gangsters that are
running this country is going in hibbett
somebody what's happening here
my friends is a major deception a major
deception which is in process as we
stand and talk tonight a major deception
in the same way that the Warren
Commission was a major deception work to
find the American people the same way
that the Watergate investigation was a
major deception worked upon the American
people just like the bombing the secret
bombing of Cambodia was kept secret and
was a deception worked upon the American
people how long how long are we going to
stand for being deceived in this manner
we will have to make a decision as a
country both Congress and executive that
we will not tolerate this kind of
activity and we will go after the
perpetrators these people do have faces
when we talk about the shadow government
or we talk about the secret team it's
not something totally amorphous these
people are identifiable and can be
brought to justice
assassination drug smuggling if they had
pursued that line of questioning they
would have soon gotten themselves into
position where they would have had to
impeach someone they could track that
right back into the White House they
could put it at least rather right under
the nose of Ronald Reagan this is the
major constitutional crisis since the
Civil War
you have a president who is
unaccountable and says that it's his
interpretation of what laws he'll select
to abate when you have that you have a
constitutional crisis and all these
things that have been alleged for years
and have been speculated and it been
charged and have been consistently
denied are being confirmed and these
documents have shown an incredible array
of efforts all of which were denied to
Congress repeatedly and fried out lies
by top members of the administration and
by the president it is not a CIA gone
wild or a secret government operating
that's on its own it's a group of people
doing things with the authority of and
at the direction of the White House
covert operations have never done this
country any good they may be of
momentary advantage to the people who
are in power at a particular moment but
in terms of the interests of this
country as a whole they have proven
disastrous there isn't a single one in
30 years that you can point to and say
well that was one that we are now more
secure better off and happier as a
result of every one of them has in its
own way contributed to the deterioration
of security in the world that we live in
and so it's really time to stop them
instead of operating within rules and
law we have been supplying lethal
weapons to terrorists nations
trading arms for hostages involving the
US government in military activities in
direct contravention of the law
diverting public funds into private
pockets and secret unofficial activities
selling access to the president for
thousands of dollars
dispensing cash and foreign money orders
out of a White House safe
accepting gifts and falsifying papers to
cover it up
altering and spreading national security
documents lying to the Congress now I
believe that the American people
understand that democracy cannot survive
that kind of abuse there was a time when
the ignorant
[Music]